# CS-305
CS-305-T6614 Software Security 22EW6 2021-2022 

# Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
Artemis Financial is a financial institution that needed an upgrade to renovate their current operations. They requested the help of my team to implement and ensure the software security of their new web-based software application. They require a means of securing their applications inputs, API usage, and client server connection, ensuring errors are handled properly and that industry best practices are maintained for quality code and security. Essentially Artemis Financial requested the implementation of the newest software security protocols. In doing so, it was my job to sift through the given application, conducting manual code review as well as utilizing static code analysis tools. The overall goal for these projects was to identify known vulnerabilities and correct them.

# What did you do particularly well in identifying their software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?
Of the tasks and projects related to Artemis Financial, I believe I was able to identify a majority of the vulnerabilities. I believe where I was able to shine most with respect to those vulnerabilities was creation and implementation of the mitigation plan. I think that using what was identified allowed me to further pursue routes to fix a majority of those vulnerabilities. This is important because of the nature of secure code and how vital it is to a company’s success. It is essential to code securely such that company and their assets remain safe from malicious intent and most importantly that their customers personal information remains safe and secure at all times. In doing so, the value of secure software if brought to light. Customers who know their information may be at risk due to malpractice software are less likely to trust a company thus they will take their business elsewhere.

# What about the process of working through the vulnerability assessment did you find challenging or helpful?
At first, working through the vulnerability assessment was difficult as I was not completely sure of what to look for, nevertheless with a bit of dedication and time studying common vulnerabilities, I was able to overcome this difficulty. In fact, after conducting research and furthering my understanding of common vulnerabilities, the vulnerability assessments became vital to my success. Going through each step of assessment process showed aspects of a program that I had previously not considered to be a threat to security. Although the assessment is not exact in the terms of showing every vulnerability, it was an excellent position to start with which inevitably led me to find and fix most if not all vulnerabilities within Artemis Financials’ web based application. 

# How did you approach the need to increase layers of security? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to assess vulnerabilities and determine mitigation techniques?
Fortifying security measures is no easy task, and therefore, I spent many hours reviewing common vulnerabilities and finding documentation of potential or known fixes. Utilizing tools such as the dependency check showed me all of the dependencies with known vulnerabilities. In turn, I used the national vulnerability database (NVD) to gain a further insight into the potential threats and common mitigations. Using the vulnerability assessment flowchart, I identified all areas of security that were applicable and worked through each on adding security mitigations to fight said vulnerabilities.

# How did you ensure the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
After identification and mitigation were complete with relation to the security issues identified, I conducted another manual review of the refactored code passing over it to ensure no additional vulnerabilities were identified or added due to the refactoring of the code base. On top of this, I conducted another vulnerability report and verified said report against the older report to ensure that no additional vulnerabilities were introduced. To further certify the code and software that is refactored is not only functional but secure, extensive testing and strict adherence to industry best practices was maintained. Additionally, a thorough delve into research of common security vulnerabilities helped me to safeguard my refactored code from security risks.

# What resources, tools, or coding practices did you employ that you might find helpful in future assignments or tasks?
I found resources such as the CVE and NVD databases to be the most helpful for grasping the concepts of the security vulnerabilities. Furthermore, the vulnerability assessment flowchart was invaluable to the success of my projects. I found this asset extremely useful for identification and mitigation of the vulnerabilities within my projects; I will most certainly adapt this assessment to my future programs. Lastly, the dependency check report was crucial to find a starting point for vulnerabilities within my applications and thus I will ensure that is implemented into all further projects.

# Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to demonstrate your skills, knowledge, and experience. What from this particular assignment might you want to showcase to a future employer?
What I believe would be most beneficial to show a future employer would be the example of identification of the vulnerabilities within Artemis Financials’ application. In doing so, I can show my competency in relation to the security risks of my projects and the projects I work on as a team. Additionally, this shows my employer that I understand the gravity of the security risks of software development. On top of this, showing my employer that I have a mitigation plan based on the vulnerabilities identified would also be beneficial to my future and my potential career. I believe not only being able to find security risks, but also fix them is exceptionally important for me and my future employer.
